doc/installation/v1.7/docker.md, before:

# Installing Flowspy v1.7 with Docker

Flowspy users may wish to test Flowspy in a container rather than directly onto a server or virtual host; this document shows how to build and deploy Flowspy in a Docker container.

Flowspy installs into `/srv/flowspy` by default; if you wish to use a different directory then you will need to update several configuration files. It is also assumed that the `root` user will perform every action.

# Requirements

Docker must be installed on your target OS; the installation of Docker is outside the scope of this document.

Docker images require disk space on the host OS; approximately 2 GB for Flowspy and approximately 200 MB for CentOS 7 which is the default OS used.

Although the default `Dockerfile` is for CentOS, several Dockerfiles for both CentOS and Debian can be found in the `Dockerfiles.d` directory. These are meant **for testing only** and are _not_ production-ready.

The containers run `gunicorn`, `celeryd` and Redis - and use a SQLite database (`/srv/flowspy/example-data`) to hold resources. They also make a web server available on port 8000.

# Building the Flowspy container

First build your Flowspy container. The default (`Dockerfile`) is a container which uses CentOS 7 and `systemd`, but there are other options; one uses `supervisord` and the other is a 2-step build which may suit developers by allowing for faster rebuilds when code changes.

> Although the examples below use CentOS, just replace `Dockerfile.centos` with `Dockerfile.debian` if you wish to use Debian instead.

## CentOS with `systemd`

```
docker build -f Dockerfile -t fod-centos .
```

## CentOS with `supervisord`

```
docker build -f ./Dockerfiles.d/Dockerfile.centos.supervisord -t fod-centos .
```

## CentOS with 2-step build

For `systemd`;
``` 
docker build -f ./Dockerfiles.d/Dockerfile.centos.base -t fodpy3_centos_base .
docker build -f ./Dockerfiles.d/Dockerfile.centos.step2 -t fod-centos .
```

For `supervisord`;
```
docker build -f ./Dockerfiles.d/Dockerfile.centos.supervisord.base -t fodpy3_centos_svzd_base .
docker build -f ./Dockerfiles.d/Dockerfile.centos.supervisord.step2 -t fod-centos
```

# Running Flowspy

You should now be able to see relevant images for Flowspy in your Docker environment;

```
[user@host-os ~]$ docker images
REPOSITORY          TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
fod-centos          latest              42da1eb2b4a5        3 minutes ago       1.73 GB
```

Although the web server listens on port 8000 by default you can map this to a different port on the Docker command line. Our examples map port 8000 on the docker container to port 80 on the host OS.

```
docker run -p 80:8000 fod-centos # run in foreground
or
docker run -d -p 80:8000 fod-centos # run in background
```

If you are using the Debian container then replace `fod-centos` with `fod-debian`.

You can confirm that the docker container is running with `docker ps` - this will also give you the autogenerated name of the container and show you port mappings if any;

```
[user@host-os Dockerfiles.d]$ docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                    CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                  NAMES
5b125f76470d        fod-centos          "/srv/flowspy/runfod.sh"   1 month ago         Up 2 days           0.0.0.0:80->8000/tcp   lucid_mcnulty
```

You can connect the container directly and start a shell using either the `CONTAINER ID` or the `NAME` and the `docker exec -it` command;

```
[user@host-os Dockerfiles.d]$ docker exec -ti lucid_mcnulty bash
[root@5b125f76470d /]#
```

# Initial setup of Flowspy

You need to set a couple of options once the container is running; the password for the `admin` user and the details of the NETCONF-enabled router which Flowspy will use to inject FLOWSPEC routes.

- NETCONF_DEVICE
- NETCONF_PORT
- NETCONF_USER
- NETCONF_PASS

## via Web GUI

Access the Flowspy web server at `http://127.0.0.1:8000/setup/` (if you are connecting from _inside_ the container) or `http://your.host-os.ipaddress/` if you are connecting from _outside_ the container (and have mapped port 8000 to port 80).

Once you hit "Save", the config will be saved **in the container** as `/srv/flowspy/flowspy/settings_local.py`.

You will need to restart the container for Flowspy to pick up this config; from the Host OS

```
docker restart lucid_mcnulty
```

You can now access the Flowspy web server using your new credentials.

## via manual configuration

> This needs to be done from **inside** the container.

The relevant file is `/srv/flowspy/flowspy/settings.py`; the relevant variables are

- NETCONF_DEVICE
- NETCONF_PORT
- NETCONF_USER
- NETCONF_PASS

You will then need to use the `manage.py` script to change the admin password;

```
cd /srv/flowspy; ./pythonenv ./manage.py changepassword admin
```

You will need to restart the container for Flowspy to pick up this config; from the Host OS

```
docker restart lucid_mcnulty
```

You can now access the Flowspy web server using your new credentials.

## Testing NETCONF connectivity

**Please** make sure that the docker container has IP connectivity to your NETCONF device!

If you wish to confirm this, then use `yum install telnet` to install telnet in your container and telnet to whichever port on which your NETCONF device is listening (`netconf-ssh`/830 by default);

```
[root@5b125f76470d flowspy]# telnet 192.0.2.1 netconf-ssh
Trying 192.0.2.1...
Connected to 192.0.2.1.
Escape character is '^]'.
SSH-2.0-OpenSSH_7.5
^]
telnet> close
Connection closed.
[root@5b125f76470d flowspy]#
```

# Misc

You may access the containerised Web GUI after the password of the admin user has been reset via `http://127.0.0.1:8000/altlogin`.

> Do not try to use the Shibboleth login via `/altlogin` as it will not work without a fully configured Shibboleth SP

# Persistent storage

The configuration will only last as long as the docker container itself; if the container is stopped or the host OS rebooted then the configuration will be lost.

You can use [Docker volumes](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) for persistent storage;

```
[user@host-os]$ docker volume create Flowspy-srv
Flowspy-srv
[user@host-os]$ docker volume inspect Flowspy-srv
[
    {
        "Driver": "local",
        "Labels": {},
        "Mountpoint": "/var/lib/docker/volumes/Flowspy-srv/_data",
        "Name": "Flowspy-srv",
        "Options": {},
        "Scope": "local"
    }
]
```

Then use the Docker CLI argument `-v` (**v**olume) to mount the container at runtime;

```
docker run -d -p 80:8000  -v Flowspy-srv:/srv fod-centos
```

Commit message:

update default Dockerfiles: default is again to use /setup URL instead of using fixed parameters for amdin user/password and NETCONF parameters; Neverthless, provide possibility to specifiy NETCONF parameters during install-*.sh; update docker documentation to reflect all recent updates on Dockerfiles

doc/installation/v1.7/docker.md, after:

# Installing Flowspy v1.7 with Docker

Flowspy users may wish to test Flowspy in a container rather than directly onto a server or virtual host; this document shows how to build and deploy Flowspy in a Docker container.

Flowspy installs into `/srv/flowspy` by default; if you wish to use a different directory then you will need to update several configuration files. It is also assumed that the `root` user will perform every action.

# Requirements

Docker must be installed on your target OS; the installation of Docker is outside the scope of this document.

Docker images require disk space on the host OS; approximately 2 GB for Flowspy and approximately 200 MB for CentOS 7 which is the default OS used.

Although the default `Dockerfile` = `Dockerfile.fod.debian` is for Debian, Dockerfile.fod.centos.new for CENTOS 7, and Dockerfile.fod.centos.old left for compatibility,
several older Dockerfiles for both Debian and CentOS and can be found in the `Dockerfiles.d` directory. These are meant **for testing only** and are _not_ production-ready.

The containers run `gunicorn`, `celeryd` and Redis - and use a SQLite database (`/srv/flowspy/example-data`) to hold resources. They also make a web server available on port 8000.

# Building the Flowspy container

First build your Flowspy container. The default (`Dockerfile` = `Dockerfile.fod.debian`) is a container which uses Debian and `supervisord`, but there are other options; Dockerfile.fod.centos.\* uses CENTOS 7, Dockerfile.fod.centos.new with `supervisord`, Dockerfile.fod.centos.old is left for compatibility without `supervisord`.
Dockerfile.fod.debian and Dockerfile.fod.centos.new by default will split the installation of FoD during container build into 3 phases (OS dependencies, python/pip dependencies, FoD proper installation) to exploit Docker build cache for faster rebuilding.
Moreover Dockerfile.fod.debian and Dockerfile.fod.centos.new can be edited for uncommenting/commenting to switch more options: e.g., use 'systemd' instead of 'supervisord' or not splitting the FoD installation into 3 phases 
(first docker build will be a bit faster and the docker container building is more efficient, as the number of docker image layers is reduced, but subsequent build after some changes in code or settings will require nearly the same amount of time as the first build)

> Although the examples below use CentOS, just replace `Dockerfile.centos.new` with `Dockerfile.debian` if you wish to use Debian instead.

## CentOS with `supervisord`

```
docker build -f Dockerfile.centos.new -t fod-centos .
```

# Running Flowspy

You should now be able to see relevant images for Flowspy in your Docker environment;

```
[user@host-os ~]$ docker images
REPOSITORY          TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
fod-centos          latest              42da1eb2b4a5        3 minutes ago       1.73 GB
```

Although the web server listens on port 8000 by default you can map this to a different port on the Docker command line. Our examples map port 8000 on the docker container to port 80 on the host OS.

```
docker run -p 80:8000 fod-centos # run in foreground
or
docker run -d -p 80:8000 fod-centos # run in background
```

If you are using the Debian container then replace `fod-centos` with `fod-debian`.

You can confirm that the docker container is running with `docker ps` - this will also give you the autogenerated name of the container and show you port mappings if any;

```
[user@host-os Dockerfiles.d]$ docker ps
CONTAINER ID        IMAGE               COMMAND                    CREATED             STATUS              PORTS                  NAMES
5b125f76470d        fod-centos          "/srv/flowspy/runfod.sh"   1 month ago         Up 2 days           0.0.0.0:80->8000/tcp   lucid_mcnulty
```

You can connect the container directly and start a shell using either the `CONTAINER ID` or the `NAME` and the `docker exec -it` command;

```
[user@host-os Dockerfiles.d]$ docker exec -ti lucid_mcnulty bash # replace with name of whose of your container
[root@5b125f76470d /]#
```

# Initial setup of Flowspy

You need to set a couple of options once the container is running; the password for the `admin` user and the details of the NETCONF-enabled router which Flowspy will use to inject FLOWSPEC routes.

- NETCONF_DEVICE
- NETCONF_PORT
- NETCONF_USER
- NETCONF_PASS

## via Web GUI

Access the Flowspy web server at `http://127.0.0.1:8000/setup/` (if you are connecting from _inside_ the container) or `http://your.host-os.ipaddress/` if you are connecting from _outside_ the container (and have mapped port 8000 to port 80).

Once you hit "Save", the config will be saved **in the container** as `/srv/flowspy/flowspy/settings_local.py`.

You will need to restart the container for Flowspy to pick up this config; from the Host OS

```
docker restart lucid_mcnulty # replace name with whose of your container
```

You can now access the Flowspy web server using your new credentials.

## via manual configuration

> This needs to be done from **inside** the container.

The relevant file is `/srv/flowspy/flowspy/settings.py`; the relevant variables are

- NETCONF_DEVICE
- NETCONF_PORT
- NETCONF_USER
- NETCONF_PASS

You will then need to use the `manage.py` script to change the admin password;

```
cd /srv/flowspy; ./pythonenv ./manage.py changepassword admin
```

You will need to restart the container for Flowspy to pick up this config; from the Host OS

```
docker restart lucid_mcnulty # replace name with whose of your container
```

You can now access the Flowspy web server using your new credentials.

## As fixed parameters in the Dockerfile

As a new alternative, admin user name/password and NETCONF parameters can be specified in the Dockerfile.fod.debian or Dockerfile.fod.centos.new:

Comment the line
\RUN ./install-centos.sh --both --here --supervisord
and as replacement uncomment the line
\#RUN ./install-centos.sh --both --here --supervisord --setup_admin_user --setup_admin_user5 admin adminpwd admin@localhost.local testpeer 0.0.0.0/0 --netconf 172.17.0.3 830 netconf netconf
(In case of Dockerfile.fod.debian ./install-centos.sh is replaced by ./install-debian.sh)

Replace values as it suits you, the 2 parameters following "--setup_admin_user5" are admin username and password, the 4 parameters following "--netconf" are NETCONF_DEVICE, NETCONF_PORT, NETCONF_USER, NETCONF_PASS .

The docker container built with this changed Dockerfile will have the respective values setup and /setup URL will not be usable any more.

## Testing NETCONF connectivity

**Please** make sure that the docker container has IP connectivity to your NETCONF device!

If you wish to confirm this, then use `yum install telnet` to install telnet in your container and telnet to whichever port on which your NETCONF device is listening (`netconf-ssh`/830 by default);

```
[root@5b125f76470d flowspy]# telnet 192.0.2.1 netconf-ssh
Trying 192.0.2.1...
Connected to 192.0.2.1.
Escape character is '^]'.
SSH-2.0-OpenSSH_7.5
^]
telnet> close
Connection closed.
[root@5b125f76470d flowspy]#
```

# Misc

You may access the containerised Web GUI after the password of the admin user has been reset via `http://127.0.0.1:8000/altlogin`.

> Do not try to use the Shibboleth login via `/altlogin` as it will not work without a fully configured Shibboleth SP

# Persistent storage

The configuration will only last as long as the docker container itself; if the container is stopped or the host OS rebooted then the configuration will be lost.

You can use [Docker volumes](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) for persistent storage;

```
[user@host-os]$ docker volume create Flowspy-srv
Flowspy-srv
[user@host-os]$ docker volume inspect Flowspy-srv
[
    {
        "Driver": "local",
        "Labels": {},
        "Mountpoint": "/var/lib/docker/volumes/Flowspy-srv/_data",
        "Name": "Flowspy-srv",
        "Options": {},
        "Scope": "local"
    }
]
```

Then use the Docker CLI argument `-v` (**v**olume) to mount the container at runtime;

```
docker run -d -p 80:8000  -v Flowspy-srv:/srv fod-centos
```
